This is a question
that's frequently raised: people often
say that because we go to the temple, we
leave our husbands, and that
those who go to the temple with their wives always
try to leave them. The
question is this: "I have a
family situation that's very difficult for me, teacher. I'm
married and responsible at home,
except for three days a month, the 8th, 14th, and
30th, when I go to the temple. I don't go out partying or
anything like that, but my husband says he wants to leave
me because I go to the temple so often. Please give me some
advice. What should I do now?" "Is
this a common problem?" "Yes, it's
very common."
Dear fellow practitioners,
we are all
independent individuals,
independent from our
husbands and independent
from each other in
society. When someone goes to the temple,
who do we interact with? We interact with other
temple-goers. What
kind of people are these temple-goers? They
don't gather to eat, drink, sing, or party, right? They
rarely go to birthday parties or
travel.  When we organize outings to
restaurants, we rarely go dancing or strolling around
in the evening, right?
And if we don't go to the temple,
we still have to live a
normal life at home, we still
have to socialize with friends, we have to have
friends, and those friends are
also suitable. If we don't go to the temple, what else do we have to do? We
have to go out to eat, right? We organize
outings, and sometimes we go to
clubs or go shopping for clothes, right? And the
greater danger of these things outside is that they
often give rise to
extramarital affairs when we go out
too much and have too many relationships, right?
If we don't have
enough self-control to face
life in a society where people live for their eyes and ears,
right? A society that lives for its eyes and ears more than its heart, right? Society now lives too
much for its eyes and ears.
That means
food comes from the eyes and food comes from the ears, or from the
ears, more than anything else. For example, if you
see someone with beautiful clothes, you have to
have them immediately. Isn't that what the eyes do? If you hear
someone complimenting the clothes, you think they're a great outfit?  That shirt is so beautiful, I
have to go home and buy something. We
have two choices for making
friends, which one brings us
more peace and happiness?
Going to the temple, right? You go to the
temple because in life we ​​need
friends; no one can be without friends.
We can only have a limited number of friends,
not too many, because
we only have time to be close to a certain number of
people. We have to work,
we have to take care of our families. There are
so many things to do. So, the only
free time we have is for friends to check in with
each other, hang out together, and exchange
ideas. That's how we become close friends. If friends don't check in with each other for years, they won't be close anymore and will drift apart. Therefore, we always need to maintain close,
regular relationships – those are what we call friendship.
And we will
share interests; that means
close friends must have the same interests to be close,
right?
Because if we don't have the same
interests...  They can't even be close friends.
Then you should go ask your husband, "
I'm currently
choosing between two people to befriend. You
choose. We don't mind
letting our husbands try it for a while; it's
okay. You can skip going to
the temple for 2 months, 3 months, or even
4 months; it's fine. Just try it.
You'll start hanging out with those who are into
partying and spending
a lot of money on makeup,
shopping, birthday parties, and constantly demanding money from your husband
to
serve them. That's how we should interact with the people we're hanging out with.
For example, take your husband
to your friend's house, and they'll say, '
Their husband is like that,' but you ca
n't compare yourself to them. Clearly, when you hang out with friends, you
have to keep up with them. If your friend's husband is
better than yours, then you have to urge your husband to keep up. It's
very difficult when you hang out with your friend when there's a
difference, right? If he invites me
today, I have to invite him tomorrow. It's
never the case that we invite
him only once in a while.
So, going out has to be about right.  It's appropriate to be of a certain social
class, right? Only Buddhists
disregard all social classes, right?
Rich, poor, ugly, beautiful, right? Rich, poor,
ugly, beautiful, smart, stupid, they're all good friends, it's
okay. We,
all Buddhists, should let
our husbands choose their friends first. I'll
hang out with those two types of friends. Whichever you choose,
I'll try hanging out with them for a while,
okay? If you hang out with those who like to party, just party and have fun like
them, what's wrong with that?
Going out all day. For example, I now really
like hanging out with sophisticated friends,
friends who go shopping, right?
Friends who eat out, friends who
know how to party a little, meaning
I have to go to dance classes. Going out with friends means going to dance classes,
so I go to dance classes.
After four months like that, I'll tell them to
switch to hanging out with Buddhists to see how it goes. Let's
see how those two relationships
turn out. After a while, let's see if my husband
will voluntarily choose me, and then he'll say, 'Okay, I'll go
with
Buddhists.' Just keep it
in your heart, and...  You guys just follow
your husband's wishes, choose whatever you want for going out, feel
free to go, right? Then you say, "Oh my god, I
wore
this outfit yesterday! Today I'm going out, taking pictures, and posting
this outfit on Facebook again?
Honey, buying
new clothes is easy, right?" And that's
right, who wouldn't? Today I'm going out with
my husband in this outfit? Today I'm going out, so I need new
shoes, new clothes,
new hair... just let your husband be comfortable
serving his wife, what's the big deal, right? It's simple.
And you guys should find really rich
friends to befriend, right? Rich
friends aren't hard to make.
Just borrow money and treat your rich
friends ten times, and they'll come along. I
think Yen is just joking. In
reality, anyone who wants to be a
Buddhist wants to take care of
their family because they don't want to waste too
much money on useless things.
Think of it this way:
Look at the old folks
at home, like your grandmother or your grandfather. They don't have any friends left,
do they?
Usually, when you're old, you only have
a few friends to talk to,
stories that bring you peace. Old age... That's how it is. So
now,
if you want to have close friends from youth
to old age, only fellow
practitioners can provide that. So, I
beg you, husbands who
say, "Because my wife goes to the temple, I
want to leave her," please
reconsider, otherwise your wives
will change and
squander almost all your assets.
Yes, that makes sense. Ngoc Thu, I greet
you, teacher. I have a question and hope you can answer it.
What kind of karmic connection do twins have from their past lives? And if one twin is
alive and the other
dies, what kind of karmic connection is that?
Dear fellow practitioner, twins
have
similar appearances
and personalities, right?
Although not completely identical, some
twins have very different personalities,
but their appearances are almost
identical. According to
karma in Buddhism, this is the merit and
blessings created.  Because they are born in the same form,
these two people must do
things together that are
similar, compatible, and have the same mindset. That is,
in that moment, their minds are
equal. Although they are doing the
same thing, people's minds are
often not the same. For example, I
do this thing, but I feel joy, while the
other person doesn't feel the same joy
as me. So, two people are different,
but there are also cases where their minds are the
same, so they share the same
blessings and have the same karmic connection
to be children of these parents, so they
become twins. If one twin
dies, it's because that twin created
some karma that caused their life
to be short. Because of twins, some live
long lives, while
others have short lifespans.
Twins often have what is
called intuition; if one is sad, the
other naturally feels sad too. This is
because they are usually born together in their
minds when doing things that cause
them to have similar forms.
Born with the same parents, they are together,
meaning they share the same mindset. That's because they share the same
mindset, so they are born with similar careers or
corresponding professions, they are very
similar, so they have similar
advantages in terms of their parents'
economic circumstances, their own time, and they
study together. Because they are the same
age, they have to study together and have
very direct exchanges with each other
within the same family. They share
similar feelings and emotions
[music].